readme.md, before:

# Maximize v1.0.0

<a href="https://david-dm.org/cyrildewit/maximize" title="Dependency status">
    <img src="https://david-dm.org/cyrildewit/maximize.svg" />
</a>
&nbsp;
<a href="https://david-dm.org/cyrildewit/maximize#info=devDependencies" title="devDependency status">
    <img src="https://david-dm.org/cyrildewit/maximize/dev-status.svg" />
</a>

Maximize is a powerful boilerplate for creating new web development projects.

## Features
Here are some of the main features of Maximize:

- Gulp: HTTP server with PHP and Browsersync.
- Gulp: Lints, minify and concatenates JavaScipt files.
- Gulp: Compiles and minify Sass files (.sass and .scss).
- Gulp: PostCSS for transforming CSS with JavaScript (default: rucksack-css, autoprefixer and csswring for minification).
- Gulp: Sourcemaps for JavaScript &amp; CSS.
- Gulp: Minify images.
- Gulp: Task for displacing files from the `bower_components` folder to the public folder.
- Sass: A pre built Sass OOCSS setup.
- PHP: A basic basic PHP framework for faster front-end development.

## Documentation
In this documentation you will find some helpfull information about the use of the boilerplate. If you have any questions about the boilerplate or if you find some grammer mistakes, then you can contact me at: info@cyrildewit.nl.

**In this documentation:**

1. [Getting Started](#getting-started)
2. [Gulpfile](#gulpfile)
3. [Sass OOCSS Setup](#sass-oocss-setup)
4. [JavaScript Application Setup](#javascript-application-setup)
4. [PHP Application Setup](#php-application-setup)

## Getting Started

### Dependencies
Make sure these are installed first.

* [Node.js](http://nodejs.org)
* [Gulp](http://gulpjs.com) `(sudo) npm install -g gulp`
* [Bower](https://bower.io) `(sudo) npm install -g bower`

### Quick Start
1. Download the latest version of Maximize (using git clone or the download link).
    * `git clone https://github.com/cyrildewit/Maximize.git`
    * Click on the green button with 'clone or download' at the top of GitHub. Then click on 'Download ZIP'.
2. In bash/terminal/command line, `cd` into your project directory.
3. Run `npm install` to install the required files.
4. When it's done installing, run one of the task runners to get going:
	* `gulp` automatically compiles files and applies changes using BrowserSync.
    * See the full list of task in the nex chapter!

### Gulp Tasks
We wrote some powerful tasks for you to simplify your development of web projects. We highly recommend you to read the `Gulpfile` chapter carefully.

## Gulpfile
Gulp is a build system, meaning that you can use it to automate common tasks in the development of a website. It's built on Node.js, so you can use JavaScript (or something like CoffeeScript, if you so choose) to define tasks.

### List of possible tasks

| Command                   |
| ------------------------- |
| `gulp`                    |
| `gulp build-js`           |
| `gulp watch:build-js`     |
| `gulp jshint`             |
| `gulp watch:jshint`       |
| `gulp build-css`          |
| `gulp watch:build-css`    |
| `gulp build-img`          |
| `gulp watch:build-img`    |
| `gulp displace-bc`        |
| `gulp clean-assets`       |
| `gulp watch`              |
| `gulp build`              |
| `gulp watch:build`        |

<br>
<hr>
<br>
#### Command: `gulp`
This task build the CSS, JS and image files, then starts a HTTP server with PHP and Browsersync support and then it will start a watcher.

This task executes the `build`, `browserSync` and `watch` task.

| Subject | Information |
| ------- | ----- |
| Used Plugins | <ul><li>`gulp`</li></ul> |
| Used Customizable Properties | none |

<br>
<hr>
<br>
#### Command: `gulp build-js` &amp; `gulp watch:build-js`

This task concatenates all the JavaScript files, gives it a header based upon the `package.json` file. If the production environment variable is used, then it will also minify the output and gives it a prefix.

By using the prefixed task `watch:build-js`, it will automatically be executed on change.

| Subject | Information |
| ------- | ----- |
| Used Plugins | <ul><li>`gulp`</li><li>`gulp-sourcemaps`</li><li>`gulp-concat`</li><li>`gulp-util`</li><li>`gulp-uglify`</li><li>`gulp-rename`</li><li>`gulp-header`</li><li>`browser-sync`</li></ul> |
| Used Customizable Properties | View the next table! |

| Property | Type |
| ---------- | ----------- |
| configuration.scripts.toConcatenate | `Array` |
| configuration.scripts.outputName | `String` |
| configuration.scripts.uglifySettings | `Object` |
| configuration.scripts.destination | `String` |
| configuration.scripts.toScan | `String` |

<br>
<hr>
<br>
#### Command: `gulp jshint` &amp; `gulp watch:jshint`
This task lints all the JavaScript files and show the result inside the command line.

By using the prefixed task `watch:jshint`, it will automatically be executed on change.

| Subject | Information |
| ------- | ----- |
| Used Plugins | <ul><li>`gulp`</li><li>`jshint`</li><li>`gulp-jshint`</li><li>`gulp-stylish`</li></ul> |
| Used Files | <ul><li>`.jshintrc`</li></ul> |
| Used Customizable Properties | View the next table! |

| Property | Type |
| ---------- | ----------- |
| configuration.scripts.toScan | `String` |

<br>
<hr>
<br>
#### Command: `gulp build-css` &amp; `gulp watch:build-css`
This task compiles Sass to CSS, change the CSS with PostCSS and gives it a header based upon the `package.json` file. If the production environment variable is used, then it will also minify the output and gives it a prefix.

By using the prefixed task `watch:build-css`, it will automatically be executed on change.

| Subject | Information |
| ------- | ----- |
| Used Plugins | <ul><li>`gulp`</li><li>`gulp-sourcemaps`</li><li>`gulp-sass`</li><li>`gulp-postcss`</li><li>`gulp-header`</li><li>`gulp-cssnano`</li><li>`gulp-rename`</li><li>`browser-sync`</li></ul> |
| Used Files | <ul><li>`.jshintrc`</li></ul> |
| Used Customizable Properties | View the next table! |

| Property | Type |
| ---------- | ----------- |
| configuration.styles.toCompile | `String` |
| configuration.styles.sass | `Object` |
| configuration.styles.postCSS.processors | `Array` |
| configuration.styles.destination | `String` |
| configuration.styles.toScan | `String` |

<br>
<hr>
<br>
#### Command: `gulp build-img` &amp; `gulp watch:build-img`
This task will minify images. It supports XX XX XX

By using the prefixed task `watch:build-img`, it will automatically be executed on change.

**Note:** This task is in development.

| Subject | Information |
| ------- | ----- |
| Used Plugins | <ul><li>`gulp`</li><li>`gulp-imagemin`</li></ul> |
| Used Customizable Properties | View the next table! |

| Property | Type |
| ---------- | ----------- |
| configuration.images.toScan | `String` |
| configuration.images.destination | `String` |

<br>
<hr>
<br>
#### Command: `gulp bc-displace`
This task displace the installed bower components. Fill in the exact files that you want to displace. The logic inside the task will found out what the destination is.

It currently supports the JavaScript extension `.js` and the Cascading Style Sheets extension `.css`. If you need more, please create and issue and we will add it in the next update.

| Subject | Information |
| ------- | ----- |
| Used Plugins | <ul><li>`gulp`</li><li>`path`</li></ul> |
| Used Customizable Properties | View the next table! |

| Property | Type |
| ---------- | ----------- |
| configuration.bower.components | `Array` |

<br>
<hr>
<br>
#### Command: `gulp clean-assets`
This task deletes every file and folder inside the assets directory.

| Subject | Information |
| ------- | ----- |
| Used Plugins | <ul><li>`gulp`</li><li>`del`</li></ul> |
| Used Customizable Properties | none |

<br>
<hr>
<br>
#### Command: `gulp watch`
This task will watch your: JavaScript files and build/lint them, Sass files and build them, images and build them and reload browserSync when you edit HTML &amp; PHP files inside the `public/` directory.

| Subject | Information |
| ------- | ----- |
| Used Plugins | <ul><li>`gulp`</li></ul> |
| Used Customizable Properties | none |

<br>
<hr>
<br>

#### Command: `gulp build`
This task executes the `build-js`, `build-css`, `build-img` and `displace-bc` task.

| Subject | Information |
| ------- | ----- |
| Used Plugins | <ul><li>`gulp`</li></ul> |
| Used Customizable Properties | none |

<br>
<hr>
<br>

#### Command: `gulp browserSync`
This task starts a HTTP server with PHP and BrwoserSync support. It's build for the `gulp` / `gulp default` task.

| Subject | Information |
| ------- | ----- |
| Used Plugins | <ul><li>`gulp`</li><li>`gulp`</li><li>`gulp-connect-php`</li><li>`browser-sync`</li></ul> |
| Used Customizable Properties | View the next table! |

| Property | Type |
| ---------- | ----------- |
| configuration.server.base | `String` |
| configuration.server.port | `Number` |

<br>
<hr>
<br>

## Sass OOCSS Setup
Write an explaination of the Sass OOCSS Setup Application Setup.

This feature is currently in development.

## JavaScript Application Setup
Write an explaination of the JavaScript Application Setup.

This feature is currently in development.

## PHP Application Setup
Write an explaination of the PHP Application Setup.

This feature is currently in development.

## To do
See the project GitHub [issue tracker](https://github.com/cyrildewit/Maximize/issues).

## Milestones
See the project GitHub [milestone tracker](https://github.com/cyrildewit/Maximize/milestones).

## Changelog
See the `changelog file` for more details.

* v1.0.0 | Initial version

## License
The code is available under the MIT License - Created by [Cyril de Wit](https://github.com/cyrildewit "Github profile page of Cyril de Wit")

Commit message:

Changed the format of our changelog and description of Maximize
1. Changed the description of the starters kit.
2. Started using the format of Keep a Changelog. All the files are ready
for using the new format.

readme.md, after:

# Maximize v1.0.0

<a href="https://david-dm.org/cyrildewit/maximize" title="Dependency status">
    <img src="https://david-dm.org/cyrildewit/maximize.svg" />
</a>
&nbsp;
<a href="https://david-dm.org/cyrildewit/maximize#info=devDependencies" title="devDependency status">
    <img src="https://david-dm.org/cyrildewit/maximize/dev-status.svg" />
</a>

> Maximize is a Powerful Starters Kit for Web Development using Gulp as Build System.

## Features
Here are some of the main features of Maximize:

- Gulp: HTTP server with PHP and Browsersync.
- Gulp: Lints, minify and concatenates JavaScipt files.
- Gulp: Compiles and minify Sass files (.sass and .scss).
- Gulp: PostCSS for transforming CSS with JavaScript (default: rucksack-css, autoprefixer and csswring for minification).
- Gulp: Sourcemaps for JavaScript &amp; CSS.
- Gulp: Minify images.
- Gulp: Task for displacing files from the `bower_components` folder to the public folder.
- Sass: A pre built Sass OOCSS setup.
- PHP: A basic basic PHP framework for faster front-end development.

## Documentation
In this documentation you will find some helpful information about the use of the boilerplate. If you have any questions about the boilerplate or if you find some grammer mistakes, then you can contact me at: info@cyrildewit.nl.

**In this documentation:**

1. [Getting Started](#getting-started)
2. [Gulpfile](#gulpfile)
3. [Sass OOCSS Setup](#sass-oocss-setup)
4. [JavaScript Application Setup](#javascript-application-setup)
4. [PHP Application Setup](#php-application-setup)

## Getting Started

### Dependencies
Make sure these are installed first.

* [Node.js](http://nodejs.org)
* [Gulp](http://gulpjs.com) `(sudo) npm install -g gulp`
* [Bower](https://bower.io) `(sudo) npm install -g bower`

### Quick Start
1. Download the latest version of Maximize (using git clone or the download link).
    * `git clone https://github.com/cyrildewit/Maximize.git`
    * Click on the green button with 'clone or download' at the top of GitHub. Then click on 'Download ZIP'.
2. In bash/terminal/command line, `cd` into your project directory.
3. Run `npm install` to install the required files.
4. When it's done installing, run one of the task runners to get going:
	* `gulp` automatically compiles files and applies changes using BrowserSync.
    * See the full list of task in the nex chapter!

### Gulp Tasks
We wrote some powerful tasks for you to simplify your development of web projects. We highly recommend you to read the `Gulpfile` chapter carefully.

## Gulpfile
Gulp is a build system, meaning that you can use it to automate common tasks in the development of a website. It's built on Node.js, so you can use JavaScript (or something like CoffeeScript, if you so choose) to define tasks.

### List of possible tasks

| Command                   |
| ------------------------- |
| `gulp`                    |
| `gulp build-js`           |
| `gulp watch:build-js`     |
| `gulp jshint`             |
| `gulp watch:jshint`       |
| `gulp build-css`          |
| `gulp watch:build-css`    |
| `gulp build-img`          |
| `gulp watch:build-img`    |
| `gulp displace-bc`        |
| `gulp clean-assets`       |
| `gulp watch`              |
| `gulp build`              |
| `gulp watch:build`        |

<br>
<hr>
<br>
#### Command: `gulp`
This task build the CSS, JS and image files, then starts a HTTP server with PHP and Browsersync support and then it will start a watcher.

This task executes the `build`, `browserSync` and `watch` task.

| Subject | Information |
| ------- | ----- |
| Used Plugins | <ul><li>`gulp`</li></ul> |
| Used Customizable Properties | none |

<br>
<hr>
<br>
#### Command: `gulp build-js` &amp; `gulp watch:build-js`

This task concatenates all the JavaScript files, gives it a header based upon the `package.json` file. If the production environment variable is used, then it will also minify the output and gives it a prefix.

By using the prefixed task `watch:build-js`, it will automatically be executed on change.

| Subject | Information |
| ------- | ----- |
| Used Plugins | <ul><li>`gulp`</li><li>`gulp-sourcemaps`</li><li>`gulp-concat`</li><li>`gulp-util`</li><li>`gulp-uglify`</li><li>`gulp-rename`</li><li>`gulp-header`</li><li>`browser-sync`</li></ul> |
| Used Customizable Properties | View the next table! |

| Property | Type |
| ---------- | ----------- |
| configuration.scripts.toConcatenate | `Array` |
| configuration.scripts.outputName | `String` |
| configuration.scripts.uglifySettings | `Object` |
| configuration.scripts.destination | `String` |
| configuration.scripts.toScan | `String` |

<br>
<hr>
<br>
#### Command: `gulp jshint` &amp; `gulp watch:jshint`
This task lints all the JavaScript files and show the result inside the command line.

By using the prefixed task `watch:jshint`, it will automatically be executed on change.

| Subject | Information |
| ------- | ----- |
| Used Plugins | <ul><li>`gulp`</li><li>`jshint`</li><li>`gulp-jshint`</li><li>`gulp-stylish`</li></ul> |
| Used Files | <ul><li>`.jshintrc`</li></ul> |
| Used Customizable Properties | View the next table! |

| Property | Type |
| ---------- | ----------- |
| configuration.scripts.toScan | `String` |

<br>
<hr>
<br>
#### Command: `gulp build-css` &amp; `gulp watch:build-css`
This task compiles Sass to CSS, change the CSS with PostCSS and gives it a header based upon the `package.json` file. If the production environment variable is used, then it will also minify the output and gives it a prefix.

By using the prefixed task `watch:build-css`, it will automatically be executed on change.

| Subject | Information |
| ------- | ----- |
| Used Plugins | <ul><li>`gulp`</li><li>`gulp-sourcemaps`</li><li>`gulp-sass`</li><li>`gulp-postcss`</li><li>`gulp-header`</li><li>`gulp-cssnano`</li><li>`gulp-rename`</li><li>`browser-sync`</li></ul> |
| Used Files | <ul><li>`.jshintrc`</li></ul> |
| Used Customizable Properties | View the next table! |

| Property | Type |
| ---------- | ----------- |
| configuration.styles.toCompile | `String` |
| configuration.styles.sass | `Object` |
| configuration.styles.postCSS.processors | `Array` |
| configuration.styles.destination | `String` |
| configuration.styles.toScan | `String` |

<br>
<hr>
<br>
#### Command: `gulp build-img` &amp; `gulp watch:build-img`
This task will minify images. It supports XX XX XX

By using the prefixed task `watch:build-img`, it will automatically be executed on change.

**Note:** This task is in development.

| Subject | Information |
| ------- | ----- |
| Used Plugins | <ul><li>`gulp`</li><li>`gulp-imagemin`</li></ul> |
| Used Customizable Properties | View the next table! |

| Property | Type |
| ---------- | ----------- |
| configuration.images.toScan | `String` |
| configuration.images.destination | `String` |

<br>
<hr>
<br>
#### Command: `gulp bc-displace`
This task displace the installed bower components. Fill in the exact files that you want to displace. The logic inside the task will found out what the destination is.

It currently supports the JavaScript extension `.js` and the Cascading Style Sheets extension `.css`. If you need more, please create and issue and we will add it in the next update.

| Subject | Information |
| ------- | ----- |
| Used Plugins | <ul><li>`gulp`</li><li>`path`</li></ul> |
| Used Customizable Properties | View the next table! |

| Property | Type |
| ---------- | ----------- |
| configuration.bower.components | `Array` |

<br>
<hr>
<br>
#### Command: `gulp clean-assets`
This task deletes every file and folder inside the assets directory.

| Subject | Information |
| ------- | ----- |
| Used Plugins | <ul><li>`gulp`</li><li>`del`</li></ul> |
| Used Customizable Properties | none |

<br>
<hr>
<br>
#### Command: `gulp watch`
This task will watch your: JavaScript files and build/lint them, Sass files and build them, images and build them and reload browserSync when you edit HTML &amp; PHP files inside the `public/` directory.

| Subject | Information |
| ------- | ----- |
| Used Plugins | <ul><li>`gulp`</li></ul> |
| Used Customizable Properties | none |

<br>
<hr>
<br>

#### Command: `gulp build`
This task executes the `build-js`, `build-css`, `build-img` and `displace-bc` task.

| Subject | Information |
| ------- | ----- |
| Used Plugins | <ul><li>`gulp`</li></ul> |
| Used Customizable Properties | none |

<br>
<hr>
<br>

#### Command: `gulp browserSync`
This task starts a HTTP server with PHP and BrwoserSync support. It's build for the `gulp` / `gulp default` task.

| Subject | Information |
| ------- | ----- |
| Used Plugins | <ul><li>`gulp`</li><li>`gulp`</li><li>`gulp-connect-php`</li><li>`browser-sync`</li></ul> |
| Used Customizable Properties | View the next table! |

| Property | Type |
| ---------- | ----------- |
| configuration.server.base | `String` |
| configuration.server.port | `Number` |

<br>
<hr>
<br>

## Sass OOCSS Setup
Write an explaination of the Sass OOCSS Setup Application Setup.

This feature is currently in development.

## JavaScript Application Setup
Write an explaination of the JavaScript Application Setup.

This feature is currently in development.

## PHP Application Setup
Write an explaination of the PHP Application Setup.

This feature is currently in development.

## To do
See the project GitHub [issue tracker](https://github.com/cyrildewit/Maximize/issues).

## Milestones
See the project GitHub [milestone tracker](https://github.com/cyrildewit/Maximize/milestones).

## Changelog
See the `changelog file` for more details.

* v1.0.0 | Initial version

## License
The code is available under the MIT License - Created by [Cyril de Wit](https://github.com/cyrildewit "Github profile page of Cyril de Wit")
